SE_ASS4_Group5
Marian Chen - 6258052
Maja Gójska - 6274446

Part 1: Decide which Pattern

Which design pattern best meets each of these situations below, and why?


1. A model that stores a collection of blocks. Blocks can be metal or wood; can be painted, sanded,
or chrome plated; and can sometimes be radioactive or magnetized. What design pattern would
allow the system to easily add new types of blocks without changing existing code and how?

Design Pattern: Factory

Here, there is a family of similar object (blocks), but these can be divided into subclasses depending on a specific characteristic
(e.g., whether the block is metal, wooden, painted, sanded, etc.). As a result, all block types should implement a primary interface
(Block), which helps each subclass (Metal, Wood, Painted, etc.) determine which methods to implement based on how these characteristics
differ between types.

Source: https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/factory-method


2. A model for a game that represents a robot. The robot navigates a maze that has obstacles.
While playing the game, the robot can be upgraded with new parts that change its abilities like
speed, weapons, and shields. Which design principle allows the robot object to change its
behavior at runtime in flexible ways and how?

Design Pattern: Decorator

Here, the robot is able to get upgraded with new parts, but the remaining functions and features remain the same. In that case, the
robot could be "decorated" with new parts that add onto the original functions. In this case, subclasses that implement a
decoration interface will contain the essential methods that return the current features plus the newly added one(s).

Source: https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/decorator

3. A model stores a phone number, and the UI (a keypad) which allows the user to enter digits one
at a time. A different part of the UI wants to respond to each key being entered; however
a) the two parts of the UI should be decoupled, and
b) the model should be decoupled from the UI (model knows nothing about the UI).
Which pattern would allow this and how?

Design Pattern: Observer

In this case, an entered key would notify the other UI, which can then respond accordingly. In other words, several other UIs can
implement an Observer interface, and all can then act accordingly whenever a key is entered on the keypad UI.

Source: https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/observer

4. A library supports recursively searching a directory for files. It allows the client code to provide it
an object to filter the results. For each file which the library finds, it will ask the filter object if
that file should be accepted or rejected. (See Java's FileFilter). Which design pattern would solve
this problem, why and how?

Design Pattern: Iterator

Here, the library iterates through the files directory, asking the filter object if each file should be accepted or rejected. In this
case, it accesses all the elements (files) to check which of all files are relevant.

Source: https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/strategy